The Gospel According to St. Luke in the King James Version, also known as the Authorized
Version.
CHAPTERS 19 AND 20.
Read by Father Richard Zeile.
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain. For more
information or to volunteer, contact LibriVox dot org.
The Gospel of St. Luke, chapter 19.
And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus,
which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus, who
he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. And he ran before
and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way.
And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him, and said unto him,
Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide at thy house.
And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all
murmured, saying, that he was gone to beguessed with a man that is a sinner.
And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to
the poor. And if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him
fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for as much
as he also is a son of Abraham. For the son of man is come to seek and to save that which
was lost. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was
an eye to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately
appear. He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself
a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds,
and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him, and sent a message
saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. And it came to pass that when he
was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called
unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had
gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. And
he said unto him, Well, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a very
little, have thou authority over ten cities. And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound
hath gained five pounds. And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities. And
another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound which I have kept laid up in a napkin.
For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man. Thou takest up that which thou layest
not down, and reapest that thou didst not sow. And he saith unto him, Out of thine own
mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking
up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow. Wherefore then gavest not thou
my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required my own with usury? And
he said unto them that stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath
ten pounds. And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. For I say unto you, that
unto every one which hath shall be given, and from him that hath not, even that he hath
shall be taken away from him. But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign
over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to
pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphagy and Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of
Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you, in
the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tide, whereon, yet never man sat, loose
him, and bring him hither. And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye
say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.
And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them. And
as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt?
And they said, The Lord hath need of him. And they brought him to Jesus. And they cast
their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon. And as he went, they spread
their clothes in the way. And when he was come nigh, even now, at the descent of the
Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God
with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the
King that cometh in the name of the Lord, Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
And he answered and said unto them, I tell you, that if these should hold their peace,
the stones would immediately cry out. And when he was come near, he beheld the city
and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known even thou, at least in this thy day, the things
which belong unto thy peace. But now they are hid from thine eyes. For the days shall
come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round,
and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children
within thee. And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest
not the time of thy visitation. And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them
that sold therein, and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is the
house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple.
But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy
him, and could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to
hear him.
Chapter 20 And it came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in
the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him
with the elders, and spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority dost thou these
things, or who is he that gave thee this authority? And he answered and said unto them, I will
also ask you one thing, and answer me, The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of
men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say,
Why then believ ye him not? But and if we say of men, all the people will stone us,
for they be persuaded that John was a prophet. And they answered that they could not tell
whence it was. And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.
Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard
and led it forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time. And at the
season he sent a servant to the husbandmen that they should give him of the fruit of
the vineyard. But the husbandmen beat him and sent him away empty. And again he sent
another servant, and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him
away empty. And again he sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then
said the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be
they will reverence him when they see him. But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned
among themselves, saying, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, that the inheritance
may be ours. So they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. What therefore shall the Lord
of the vineyard do unto them? He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give
the vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid. And he beheld them
and said, What is this then that is written? The stone which the builders rejected, the
same is become the head of the corner. Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken.
But on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. And the chief priests and the
scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him, and they feared the people, for they
perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. And they watched him, and sent
forth spies which should feign themselves, just men, that they might take hold of his
words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor. And
they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither
acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us
to give tribute unto Caesar, or no? But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto
them, Why tempt ye me? show me a penny, whose image and superscription hath it? They answered
and said, Caesar's. And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which
be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. And they could not take hold of
his words before the people, and they marveled at his answer, and held their peace.
Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection,
and they asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die having
a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife and raise
up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren, and the first took a wife,
and died without children, and the second took her to wife, and he died childless, and
the third took her, and in like manner the seven also, and they left no children, and
died. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is
she? For seven had her to wife. And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of
this world marry and are given in marriage. But they which shall be accounted worthy to
obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage.
Neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels, and are the children
of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now that the dead are raised, even Moses showed
at the bush, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the
God of Jacob. For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him.
Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said. And after that
they durst not ask him any questions at all. And he said unto them, How say they that Christ
is David's son? And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The Lord said unto my
Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore
calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people he
said unto his disciples, Beware of the scribes which desire to walk in long robes, and love
greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms
at feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. The same shall
receive greater damnation.
End of chapter 20 of The Gospel According to St. Luke in the Authorized Version, commonly
known as the King James Translation.